docs(angular): rewrite Angular standalone tutorial (#17163)
nrwl/nx: docs/shared/angular-standalone-tutorial/angular-standalone.md

```json {% fileName="project.json"}
{
  "name": "myngapp",
  ...
  "targets": {
    "serve": { ... },
    "build": { ... },
    "preview": { ... },
    "test": { ... },
    "lint": { ... },
    "serve-static": { ... },
  },
}
```

The `project.json` provides useful metadata to Nx for running these targets.

```json {% fileName="project.json"}
{
  "name": "myngapp",
  ...
  "targets": {
    "serve": {
      "executor": "@angular-devkit/build-angular:dev-server",
      "configurations": {
        "production": {
          "browserTarget": "myngapp:build:production"
        },
        "development": {
          "browserTarget": "myngapp:build:development"
        }
      },
      "defaultConfiguration": "development"
    },
    ...
  },
}
```

The most interesting parts are:

- `executor` - This corresponds to the `builder` property you'd have in an Angular CLI workspace. You can use Angular builders or [Nx plugins](/plugins/intro/getting-started).
- `options` - these are additional properties and flags passed to the executor function to customize it

Learn more about how [running tasks works in Nx](/core-features/run-tasks).

## Testing and Linting - Running Multiple Tasks

> Our current setup doesn't just come with targets for serving and building the Angular application, but also has targets for unit testing, e2e testing and linting. Again, these are defined in the `project.json` file. We can use the same syntax as before to run these tasks:

Author: It has linting configured, also prettier format run. They are just not surfaced at the npm scripts level, which I think they should.

main.afa99fe9f64fbdd9.js      | main          | 193.58 kB |                51.57 kB
polyfills.1acfd3f58d94d542.js | polyfills     |  32.98 kB |                10.66 kB
runtime.37059233034b21c2.js   | runtime       | 892 bytes |               515 bytes
styles.ef46db3751d8e999.css   | styles        |   0 bytes |                       -

                              | Initial Total | 227.44 kB |                62.73 kB

Build at: 2023-05-23T14:00:31.981Z - Hash: 9086e92ce0bfefca - Time: 5228ms

 ——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————

 >  NX   Successfully ran target build for project myngapp (7s)
```

All the required files will be placed in the `dist/myngapp` folder and can be deployed to your favorite hosting provider.

## You're ready to go!

In the previous sections you learned about the basics of using Nx, running tasks and navigating an Nx workspace. You're ready to ship features now!

But there's more to learn. You've got two possibilities here:

- [Jump to the next steps section](#next-steps) to find where to go from here or

> - keep reading and learn some more about what makes Nx unique when working with Angular.

Reviewer: I'm not going to block the PR for this, but I still think the tutorial would be more digestible if it was split into two parts.  Then this section would be:

But there's more to learn:
- Starting where this tutorial left off, [learn to modularize your application and take advantage of the structure Nx provides](/angular-standalone-tutorial/modularize)
- Dig into the underlying [mental model of Nx](/concepts/mental-model)
- Understand the [differences between the Angular CLI and Nx](/concepts/angular-and-nx)
- Learn how to [migrate your existing Angular CLI repo to Nx](/recipes/adopting-nx/migration-angular)

## Modularizing your Angular App with Local Libraries

When you develop your Angular application, usually all your logic sits in the `app` folder. Ideally separated by various folder names which represent your "domains". As your app grows, this becomes more and more monolithic though.

The following structure is a common example of such a monolithic code organization:

```
└─ myngapp
   ├─ ...
   ├─ src
   │  ├─ app
   │  │  ├─ products
   │  │  ├─ cart
   │  │  ├─ ui
   │  │  ├─ ...
   │  │  └─ app.component.ts
   │  ├─ ...
   │  └─ main.ts
   ├─ ...
   ├─ package.json
   ├─ ...
```

> Nx allows you to do separate such logic into "local libraries". The main benefits include

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nx allows you to do separate this logic into "local libraries". The main benefits include
```

   │  ├─ products
   │  │  ├─ .eslintrc.json
   │  │  ├─ README.md
   │  │  ├─ jest.config.ts
   │  │  ├─ project.json
   │  │  ├─ src
   │  │  │  ├─ index.ts
   │  │  │  ├─ lib
   │  │  │  │  └─ products
   │  │  │  │     ├─ products.component.css
   │  │  │  │     ├─ products.component.html
   │  │  │  │     ├─ products.component.spec.ts
   │  │  │  │     └─ products.component.ts
   │  │  │  └─ test-setup.ts
   │  │  ├─ tsconfig.json
   │  │  ├─ tsconfig.lib.json
   │  │  └─ tsconfig.spec.json
   │  ├─ orders
   │  │  ├─ ...
   │  │  ├─ src
   │  │  │  ├─ index.ts
   │  │  │  ├─ lib
   │  │  │  │  └─ orders
   │  │  │  │     ├─ ...
   │  │  │  │     └─ orders.component.ts
   │  │  ├─ ...
   │  └─ shared
   │     └─ ui
   │        ├─ ...
   │        ├─ src
   │        │  ├─ index.ts
   │        │  ├─ lib
   │        │  │  └─ ui
   │        │  │     ├─ ...
   │        │  │     └─ ui.component.ts
   │        └─ ...
   ├─ ...
   ├─ src
   │  ├─ app
   │  │  ├─ ...
   │  │  ├─ app.component.ts
   │  ├─ ...
   ├─ ...
```

Each of these libraries

- has its own `project.json` file with corresponding targets you can run (e.g. running tests for just orders: `nx test modules-orders`)

> - Nx names these projects based on the `--directory` flag, e.g. `modules-orders`; you can find the name in the corresponding `project.json`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- has a name based on the `--directory` flag, e.g. `modules-orders`; you can find the name in the corresponding `project.json` file
```

```json {% fileName="tsconfig.base.json" %}
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    ...
    "paths": {
      "@myngapp/modules/products": ["modules/products/src/index.ts"],
      "@myngapp/modules/orders": ["modules/orders/src/index.ts"],
      "@myngapp/modules/shared/ui": ["modules/shared/ui/src/index.ts"]
    },
    ...
  },
}
```

Hence we can easily import them into other libraries and our Angular application. For example: let's use our existing `ProductsComponent` in `modules/products/src/lib/products/`:

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { CommonModule } from '@angular/common';

@Component({
  selector: 'myngapp-products',
  standalone: true,
  imports: [CommonModule],
  templateUrl: './products.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./products.component.css'],
})
export class ProductsComponent {}
```

Make sure the `ProductsComponent` is exported via the `index.ts` file of our `products` library (which it should already be). This is our public API with the rest of the workspace. Only export what's really necessary to be usable outside the library itself.

```ts {% fileName="modules/products/src/index.ts" %}
export * from './lib/products/products.component';
```

> We're ready to import it into our main application now. If you opted into generating a router configuration when setting up the Nx workspace initially, you should have a `app.routes.ts` file in your `app` folder. If not, create it and configure the Angular router.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're ready to import it into our main application now. If you opted into generating a router configuration when setting up the Nx workspace initially, you should have an `app.routes.ts` file in your `app` folder. If not, create it and configure the Angular router.
```

Configure the routing as follows:

```ts {% fileName="src/app/app.routes.ts" %}
import { Route } from '@angular/router';
import { NxWelcomeComponent } from './nx-welcome.component';

export const appRoutes: Route[] = [
  {
    path: '',
    component: NxWelcomeComponent,
    pathMatch: 'full',
  },
  {
    path: 'products',
    loadComponent: () =>
      import('@myngapp/modules/products').then((m) => m.ProductsComponent),
  },
];
```

> As part of this step, we should also remove the `NxWelcomeComponent` from the `AppComponent.imports` declaration s.t. it is just loaded over the routing mechanism. The `app.component.html` should just have the `<router-outlet>` left:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of this step, we should also remove the `NxWelcomeComponent` from the `AppComponent.imports` declaration so that it is just loaded over the routing mechanism. The `app.component.html` should just have the `<router-outlet>` left:
```

```html {% fileName="src/app/app.component.html" %}
<router-outlet></router-outlet>
```

If you now navigate to [http://localhost:4200/products](http://localhost:4200/products) you should see the `ProductsComponent` being rendered.

![Browser screenshot of navigating to the products route](/shared/images/tutorial-angular-standalone/app-products-route.png)

Let's apply the same for our `orders` library. Import the `OrdersComponent` into the `app.routes.ts`:

```ts {% fileName="src/app/app.routes.ts" %}
import { Route } from '@angular/router';
import { NxWelcomeComponent } from './nx-welcome.component';

export const appRoutes: Route[] = [
  {
    path: '',
    component: NxWelcomeComponent,
    pathMatch: 'full',
  },
  {
    path: 'products',
    loadComponent: () =>
      import('@myngapp/modules/products').then((m) => m.ProductsComponent),
  },
  {
    path: 'orders',
    loadComponent: () =>
      import('@myngapp/modules/orders').then((m) => m.OrdersComponent),
  },
];
```

Similarly, navigating to [http://localhost:4200/orders](http://localhost:4200/orders) should now render the `OrdersComponent`.

A couple of notes:

> - both, the `ProductsComponent` and `OrdersComponent` are lazy loaded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- both the `ProductsComponent` and `OrdersComponent` are lazy loaded
```

        "tags": []
      }
    },
    {
      "name": "e2e",
      "type": "e2e",
      "data": {
        "tags": []
      }
    },
    {
      "name": "modules-shared-ui",
      "type": "lib",
      "data": {
        "tags": []
      }
    },
    {
      "name": "modules-orders",
      "type": "lib",
      "data": {
        "tags": []
      }
    },

    {
      "name": "modules-products",
      "type": "lib",
      "data": {
        "tags": []
      }
    }
  ],
  "dependencies": {
    "myngapp": [
      { "source": "myngapp", "target": "modules-orders", "type": "dynamic" },
      { "source": "myngapp", "target": "modules-products", "type": "dynamic" }
    ],
    "e2e": [{ "source": "e2e", "target": "myngapp", "type": "implicit" }],
    "modules-shared-ui": [],
    "modules-orders": [],
    "modules-products": []
  },
  "workspaceLayout": { "appsDir": "", "libsDir": "" },
  "affectedProjectIds": [],
  "focus": null,
  "groupByFolder": false
}
```

{% /graph %}

Notice how `modules-shared-ui` is not yet connected to anything because we didn't import it in any of our projects. Also the arrows to `modules-orders` and `modules-products` are dashed because we're using lazy imports.

> Exercise for you: change the codebase such that `modules-shared-ui` would be connected from `modules-orders` and `modules-products`. Note: you need to restart the `nx graph` command to refresh or run it with the `--watch` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exercise for you: change the codebase so that `modules-shared-ui` is used by `modules-orders` and `modules-products`. Note: you need to restart the `nx graph` command to update the graph or run the CLI command with the `--watch` flag.
```

## Imposing Constraints with Module Boundary Rules

Once you modularize your codebase you want to make sure that the modules are not coupled to each other in an uncontrolled way. Here are some examples of how we might want to guard our small demo workspace:

- we might want to allow `modules-orders` to import from `modules-shared-ui` but not the other way around
- we might want to allow `modules-orders` to import from `modules-products` but not the other way around

> - we might want to allow all libraries import the `modules-shared-ui` components, but not the other way around

Author: Yeah I see what you mean 🤔 . Here I mostly just wanted to lay out the conditions regardless of the technical implementation.

Further down when we add the rules, there are some differences that show how a feature-library which is more end-to-end hence allows multiple dependencies, while a `type:ui` is a library at the edges of the project tree, thus having a much more restricted allowance for libs it can depend on.

> When building such constraints you usually have two dimensions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When building these kinds of constraints you usually have two dimensions:
```

```json {% fileName="modules/orders/project.json" %}
{
  ...
  "tags": ["type:feature", "scope:orders"],
  ...
}
```

Then go to the `project.json` of your `modules-products` library and assign the tags `type:feature` and `scope:products` to it.

```json {% fileName="modules/products/project.json" %}
{
  ...
  "tags": ["type:feature", "scope:products"],
  ...
}
```

Finally, go to the `project.json` of the `modules-shared-ui` library and assign the tags `type:ui` and `scope:shared` to it.

```json {% fileName="modules/shared/ui/project.json" %}
{
  ...
  "tags": ["type:ui", "scope:shared"],
  ...
}
```

Notice how we assign `scope:shared` to our UI library because it is intended to be used throughout the workspace.

Next, let's come up with a set of rules based on these tags:

- `type:feature` should be able to import from `type:feature` and `type:ui`
- `type:ui` should only be able to import from `type:ui`
- `scope:orders` should be able to import from `scope:orders`, `scope:shared` and `scope:products`
- `scope:products` should be able to import from `scope:products` and `scope:shared`

> To enforce the rules, Nx ships with a custom ESLint rule. Open the `.eslintrc.base.json` at the root of the workspace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enforce the rules, Nx ships with a custom ESLint rule. Open the `.eslintrc.base.json` at the root of the workspace and add the following `depConstraints` in the `@nx/enforce-module-boundaries` rule configuration:
```

})
export class ProductsComponent {}
```

If you lint your workspace you'll get an error now:

```shell {% command="nx run-many -t lint" %}
    ✖  nx run modules-products:lint
       Linting "modules-products"...

       /Users/juri/nrwl/content/myngapp/modules/products/src/lib/products/products.component.ts
         3:1  error  A project tagged with "scope:products" can only depend on libs tagged with "scope:products", "scope:shared"  @nx/enforce-module-boundaries

       ✖ 1 problem (1 error, 0 warnings)

       Lint errors found in the listed files.

    ✔  nx run modules-orders:lint (1s)
    ✔  nx run myngapp:lint (1s)
    ✔  nx run e2e:lint (682ms)
    ✔  nx run modules-shared-ui:lint (797ms)

 —————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————

 >  NX   Ran target lint for 5 projects (2s)

    ✔    4/5 succeeded [0 read from cache]

    ✖    1/5 targets failed, including the following:
         - nx run modules-products:lint

```

If you have the ESLint plugin installed in your IDE you should immediately see an error:

![ESLint module boundary error](/shared/images/tutorial-angular-standalone/boundary-rule-violation-vscode.png)

> Learn more [about how to enforce module boundaries](/core-features/enforce-project-boundaries).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more about how to [enforce module boundaries](/core-features/enforce-project-boundaries).
```

## Next Steps

Congrats, you made it!! You now know how to leverage the Nx standalone applications preset to build modular Angular applications.

Here's some more things you can dive into next:

- [Learn how to setup Tailwind](/recipes/other/using-tailwind-css-with-angular-projects)

> - [Setup Storybook for our shared UI library](/packages/storybook/documents/overview-angular)

Reviewer: Tailwind and storybook don't seem quite as useful as these links below:

- Dig into the underlying [mental model of Nx](https://github.com/concepts/mental-model)
- Understand the [differences between the Angular CLI and Nx](https://github.com/concepts/angular-and-nx)
- Learn how to [migrate your existing Angular CLI repo to Nx](https://github.com/recipes/adopting-nx/migration-angular)

Author: good point, let me summarize maybe Tailwind & Storybook into a single point (to have an example of popular generators) and add some of your links
